import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import { Figma } from "@storybook/addon-designs/blocks";

<!--
Sections of this file have been duplicated in the new docs site temporarily.
When updating this file, make sure to also update the corresponding notes file:
packages/site/src/content/[Component]/[Component]Notes.mdx
-->

<Meta title="Components/Overlays/ContentOverlay" />

# ContentOverlay

ContentOverlay allows the user to quickly access information that supports their
understanding of the primary content of their current view.

## Usage guidelines

The ContentOverlay component will allow users to quickly access detailed
information about a topic without having to navigate away from their current
view.

## Content guidelines

The ContentOverlay should be able to present any type of content, but its most
common use case will probably be text and images. Since the overlay's content is
scrollable on overflow, the amount of content can be as little or as much as
needed, within reason. Unless content being used within the overlay is fetched
from an online source, there shouldn't be any concerns about the represented
content being unreliable.

## Accessibility

ContentOverlay responds to touch events, specifically swiping.

The ContentOverlay heading receives focus when opened. There is an
accessibilityLabel prop which describes the ContentOverlay. ContentOverlay has a
heading text for its title, and the close button on the overlay has an
accessibilityLabel that clearly communicates that it is used for closing the
overlay.

The overlay uses focus trapping, so that the overlay is immediately focused and
the user is only able to engage with elements within the overlay view until the
overlay is closed. After the overlay is closed, focus is returned to the element
that opened the ContentOverlay.

## Responsiveness

ContentOverlay will take up as much vertical space as needed, minus a small
amount of space between the top of the overlay and the top of the screen. It
will also take up the full width of the screen up to a breakpoint of 640px,
where it will be a maximum width of 640px and be centered on the screen.
ContentOverlay will always be fixed at the bottom for small screens, but on
larger screen sizes that are 1024px or greater, they will be centered vertically
with a maximum height with large spacing on the top and bottom.

The height of a ContentOverlay will accommodate the size of content that it
holds, and if the content exceeds the space of the overlay, it will overflow and
be scrollable. When the content of an overlay does not bring the overlay to
maximum height, the user will have the ability to swipe up to bring the
ContentOverlay to fullscreen.

## Mockup

<Figma
  collapsable
  url="https://www.figma.com/file/avvgu5SkbBvS8lGVePBsqO/Product%2FMobile?node-id=46695%3A174234&t=99B8hWLcDU6BdfTe-1"
/>

## Notes

`ContentOverlay` uses the same library internally as
[BottomSheet.](/docs/components-selections-bottomsheet--docs)
