import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import { Banner } from "@jobber/components/Banner";

<Meta title="Components/Lists and Tables/DataTable" />

# Data Table

Data Tables are used to organize and display tabular data to users while
providing a multitude of features that allows the user to interact with the data
been displayed on the table.

The standard DataTable component is a fast, consistent way to display structured
data with built-in layout, styling, and accessibility. It supports sorting,
pagination, and filtering either on the client or server.

For more advanced use cases, you can now use atomic DataTable components (e.g.,
`Row`, `Cell`, `HeaderCell`) in combination with other Atlantis components to
build fully custom table layouts. This enables greater flexibility in the types
of content you can render in rows and cells like icons, inline labels, action
buttons, or multi-line content.

If you're using a table library (such as
[TanStack Table](https://tanstack.com/table/latest)), you can combine its logic
with our atomic components to fully control the behavior and layout. This
enables sorting, filtering, pagination, and row or bulk actions. The atomic
components provide layout and styling only â€” they do not prescribe any data
logic or behavior.

## Design & usage guidelines

The DataTable component is a great solution if you are looking to display data
in a tabular way while giving your user the ability to sort, paginate or filter
that data, this can be implemented on the server side or on the client side
depending on your needs.

A best practice in DataTable presentation is to ensure that all columns with
numerical data (and their headers) round to the same decimal point, and are
right-aligned. This makes it much easier for the reader to quickly parse large
distinctions in dollar amounts, inventory counts, and other key business data.

If you have a small list of information with a 1:1 label-to-data relationship
(for example, the issued and due dates on an invoice), consider using
[DescriptionList](/components/DescriptionList).

**Note**: The atomic DataTable components are the path forward and should be
considered prior to using the [DataList](/components/DataList) and
[Table](/components/Table) components.

## Responsiveness

The standard DataTable component has the option to handle responsive design,
these options will allow us to fix the header or the first left column depending
on your needs, this will allow the user a more efficient way to visualize the
data.

When using atomic components, you can build your own responsive behavior. This
allows for greater flexibility, especially when working with table libraries
that control column visibility or mobile-friendly views. Atomic layouts let you
fully customize how data collapses or stacks at different breakpoints.
