import { Canvas, Meta, Story } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import { Figma } from "storybook-addon-designs/blocks";

<Meta title="Components/Layouts and Structure/ActionItem" />

# Action Item

ActionItem allows for consistent presentation of text content that can be
actioned on. It can use icons to provide additional visual context about the
text content.

## Design & usage guidelines

The ActionItem will provide a familiar pattern for enhancing text content with
icons and providing actions.

### In a card

ActionItem is commonly used in a Card, where it can be grouped with other
ActionItems or other elements as needed.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story
    name="In a card"
    args={{
      onPress: () => alert("👍"),
    }}
  >
    {args => (
      <Card>
        <ActionItem icon={"work"} {...args}>
          <Text>Service Checklist</Text>
        </ActionItem>
        <ActionItem icon={"address"} {...args}>
          <Text>Address</Text>
        </ActionItem>
        <ActionItem title={"Quote #64"} icon={"quote"} {...args} />
      </Card>
    )}
  </Story>
</Canvas>

### Paired with other elements

In forms in particular, you may find the need to pair an ActionItem with other
types of content, like an input.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story
    name="With other content types"
    args={{
      icon: "person",
      onPress: () => alert("👍"),
    }}
  >
    {args => (
      <Card>
        <Content>
          <InputDate placeholder="Start date" />
        </Content>
        <ActionItem {...args}>
          <TitledDetail title="Assigned to" displayText="Casey Young" />
        </ActionItem>
      </Card>
    )}
  </Story>
</Canvas>

### Action alignment

If the action appears directly related to the title, or otherwise is not
well-suited to be centered in the ActionItem, you can align the action as
needed.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story
    name="Action alignment"
    args={{
      title: "Service details",
      actionIconAlignment: "flex-start",
      onPress: () => alert("👍"),
    }}
  >
    {args => (
      <Card>
        <ActionItem {...args}>
          <TitledDetail
            title="Please provide as much information as you can"
            displayText="Cut front, back, and area behind garage. Give the customer a heads up."
          />
        </ActionItem>
      </Card>
    )}
  </Story>
</Canvas>

### Title only

You can use the title and not pass in any children. This is useful when you have
empty states that require the user's attention.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story
    name="Title only"
    args={{
      icon: "person",
      actionIcon: "add",
      title: "Add client",
      onPress: () => alert("👍"),
    }}
  >
    {args => (
      <Card>
        <ActionItem {...args} />
      </Card>
    )}
  </Story>
</Canvas>

### With interactive children

**TLDR** You can tap the things inside of a tappable ActionItem.

When an onPress is provided, the entire ActionItem is tappable for easy
interactivity. If a child of the ActionItem has an onPress, tapping directly on
that child will trigger the child item's onPress.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story
    name="With interactive children"
    args={{
      icon: "presentation",
      actionIcon: "link",
      onPress: () => alert("Tapped the entire action item"),
    }}
  >
    {args => (
      <Card>
        <ActionItem {...args}>
          <Content spacing="none">
            <Text>You can tap this link or the whole ActionItem</Text>
            <AutoLink>{"www.getjobber.com"}</AutoLink>
          </Content>
        </ActionItem>
      </Card>
    )}
  </Story>
</Canvas>

### When the user can't action the item

If a user might not be able to perform an action, but they still need to see the
content (for example, a user who can view their schedule but not edit it), you
can opt to set the `onPress` as undefined, which will hide the action icon.

<Canvas
  style={{
    background: "var(--color-surface--background)",
  }}
>
  <Story name="No action">
    <Card>
      <ActionItem icon="userSwitch" title="Team">
        <Text>Nathaniel Lewis</Text>
        <Text>Christian Carlino</Text>
        <Text>Lorna Erikssen</Text>
      </ActionItem>
    </Card>
  </Story>
</Canvas>

## Related components

To group multiple ActionItems together with dividers between them, use
ActionItemGroup.

ActionItem is commonly consumed by
[Card](/docs/atlantis-layouts-and-containers-card--card). In most cases, it will
also render at least one [Icon](/docs/atlantis-images-and-icons-icon--icon).

If you need to generate a longer list of consistently-formatted content,
consider using [List.](/docs/atlantis-lists-list--list)

## Content guidelines

ActionItem provides a pre-styled "title", which can be used to consistently
title the element.

Child content can be whatever you need, but typically consists of either Text or
TitledDetail.

## Accessibility

The Icons in ActionItem should not be announced to assistive technology. Similar
to a ListItem, the entire contents of the ActionItem should be read as one
element.

## Responsiveness

ActionItem takes up the full available width of its parent. The title will
reflow to a new line, while the icons remain aligned on the leading and trailing
ends.

The child content will use the responsive behviour of its respective components.

## Mockup

<Figma
  collapsable
  url="https://www.figma.com/file/avvgu5SkbBvS8lGVePBsqO/%F0%9F%92%99-Product%2FMobile?node-id=41947%3A224683"
/>

## Notes

<!--
  What decisions worth remembering have gone into this component? Did we consider any potentially valuable
  functionality that we’re not implementing right now for scope purposes? Are there any design decisions
  that might need explaining beyond the usage guidelines? This will help consumers understand this component
  more fully.
-->
