import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import { Figma } from "@storybook/addon-designs/blocks";

<Meta title="Components/Selections/Checkbox" />

# Checkbox

A checkbox lets a user select one or more items from a set of options.

## Design & usage guidelines

A checkbox is a familiar pattern for users who need to choose from a set of
options, or opt in to a single choice. It allows a user to provide boolean
input. It can also be in an indeterminate state when we don't know if the
checkbox is considered checked or not.

A single checkbox, a
[Switch](../?path=/docs/components-selections-switch--switch-story), and a pair
of [radio buttons](../?path=/docs/components-forms-and-inputs-radiogroup--docs)
can seem similar in theory, as all can represent an either/or decision for the
user. Use a switch when the user must make a decision to turn something on or
off, and a single checkbox when a user is opting in to a choice. A pair of radio
buttons can be used to help the user decide between two discrete options, such
as “fixed price” and “per visit” invoicing options.

Of note: when a single selection is to be made, a Switch should be used rather
than a single Checkbox. Use a Checkbox only when there are multiple selection
options to choose from. when the volume of Radio options is greater than 5 (or
there are otherwise critical vertical space constraints) use Select. when the
labels on a set of Radio options are consistently small (1–2 words), use Chip.

### CheckboxGroup (mobile)

The `<CheckboxGroup>` component is a component that provides a grouping of
checkboxes. It allows you to optionally provide a label which will allow you to
control the Checkbox children with a single parent checkbox. If some but not all
children are checked then the parent checkbox will show the indeterminate state.
An important thing to note is that when using `<CheckboxGroup>` the child
Checkboxes must have a name provided as a prop. This is so the CheckboxGroup is
able to keep track the state of the child Checkboxes. See
[Checkbox/Mobile/Checkbox Group Example](../?path=/story/components-selections-checkbox-mobile--checkbox-group-example)

## Related components

- To let people turn a setting on or off instantly, use a
  [Switch](../?path=/docs/components-selections-switch--switch-story).
- To present a set of options where people can only make a single choice, use a
  [RadioGroup](../?path=/docs/components-forms-and-inputs-radiogroup--docs).

## Mockup

<Figma
  collapsable
  url="https://www.figma.com/file/avvgu5SkbBvS8lGVePBsqO/%F0%9F%92%99-Product%2FMobile?node-id=15272%3A30151"
/>
