import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import { Figma } from "@storybook/addon-designs/blocks";
import showDo from "./assets/Atlantis_Docs_Show_Do.png";
import showDont from "./assets/Atlantis_Docs_Show_Dont.png";

<Meta title="Patterns/Disabled states" />

This pattern involves how we disable, show, or hide actions based on different
criteria. It becomes a balance in explaining the interface and not overwhelming
users with choice. Below are a few of the common examples and accompanying
guidelines for handling those situations.

<Figma url="https://www.figma.com/design/HXWXusJPZLmaJNGlKEpiyhXW/Product%2FBase?m=auto&node-id=21011-642&t=SHOjoSApnGE6QQeB-1"
>

Goal Avoid placing the user in a frustrating state where actions are unavailable
and they do not know how to enable.

Use when… An action is unavailable to the user based on a prerequisite condition
(i.e. the user cannot cannot submit a form unless data has been entered)

Principle Visibility of System Status

Recognition over recall

Solution Avoid disabled states Your first goal should be to avoid disabled
states entirely. If there is a condition required for the user to take an
action, present the opportunity to set the required condition before the user is
blocked by a disabled state. An example of this is on our “work objects” which
all require a client to be saved. If the user makes it to the bottom of the form
and has not added a client, the primary CTA is “Select Client“.

Open image-20210609-175911.png

After the user has selected a client, the primary “Save” and “Save And” actions
become available.

Open image-20210609-175948.png

If you can’t avoid them If a “fulfilled prerequisite” is unavailable and you
must disable the element, ensure that the user is informed why they cannot
perform the action and how to enable it. In the Web example, it's not obvious
that the reason you can't create a tax group is because you need to have more
than one tax rate first.

Web On web, a tooltip may help explain to the user why they can’t select an
element. Make sure the Tooltip can be triggered both by focus and hover.

Open image-20210610-174109.png

Mobile In a mobile context, Supporting Text maybe more helpful for users as it
does not require an additional interaction to uncover. If an input element (such
as a Select or InputText) has “assistive text” built in, do not use the
assistive text in a disabled state, but provide the Supporting Text as a
separate element.

Open image-20220516-231545.png

Permissions-related unavailability When functionality or a feature isn't
available because of a user's permissions, instead of disabling hide the action
altogether.

Account-tier-related unavailability If functionality is unavailable because of a
user’s subscription tier, but we want to introduce the functionality to
encourage them to upgrade, use an InlinePrompt near the place the unavailable UI
would exist, or a Button variation=learning in place of the UI to nudge the user
to learn more.

Why Avoiding disabled states is an accessibility best practice and also
generally helpful from a usability perspective. The more time a user spends
trying to understand why they can’t take an action, the less time they spend
getting sh\*t done.

Disabling elements is often the easiest path for a development team to manage
conditional states of an interface to design and build, but results in a
less-friendly interface for the user.

## Non-obvious details

Implementation If an element must be disabled and there’s an explanation to the
user…

Web: Tooltip can be a helpful component

Mobile: Text (level Supporting) is useful for mobile contexts
