import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

<Meta title="Guides/Customizing Components" />

# Customizing Components

### Philosophy: Easy to Use, Flexible to Customize

Atlantis is designed to make building consistent, accessible, and visually
appealing user interfaces as effortless as possible. Our goal is to create
components that work out of the box, requiring minimal setup or configuration
from consumers.

While we strive to cover the most common design scenarios with thoughtful
defaults, we understand that unique use cases may require customization. For
these scenarios, we provide mechanisms to extend or modify our components in a
way that maintains flexibility without compromising the integrity of the
components.

We recommend using the default implementations wherever possible to benefit from
consistency, maintainability, and built in accessibility. However, if you choose
to customize, please note that the responsibility for ensuring proper
functionality and cohesion will rest with you.

Atlantis aims to strike a balance between simplicity, flexibility, and
consistency.

### Primary Customization Approach: Named Render Props

In Atlantis, our primary approach to enabling customization is through named
render props, using the `customRender____` pattern. This method allows consumers
to inject their own UI logic while retaining the default behaviors and
functionality of the component.

#### Example: customRenderItem

Here's an example of how to use a named render prop to customize the rendering
of items in a [List](..?path=/docs/components-lists-and-tables-list--docs)
component:

```tsx
const renderProductItem = item => (
  <Flex template={["shrink", "grow"]} align="start">
    <Text>{item.price}</Text>
    <Heading level={4}>{item.name}</Heading>
  </Flex>
);

export const CustomRenderExample = () => (
  <List items={items} customRenderItem={renderProductItem} />
);
```

In this example, the default List behavior (such as the main list structure and
handling item interactions) is preserved. Only the presentation of individual
items is customized.

### Other Customization Approaches

While custom render functions are our primary approach it is not used in all
places. For simple cases where customization does not depend on internal state,
we have chosen to extend prop types to allow for a `ReactNode` to be passed in.

#### Example: Tab Component (see [Tabs](..?path=/docs/components-navigation-tabs--docs))

Instead of introducing `customRenderLabel`, the `Tab` component was updated to
allow the `label` prop to accept a `ReactNode`.

```tsx
<Tab label={<MyCustomLabel />} />
```

This approach was chosen to provide a simpler experience for those implementing
Atlantis components. Customizing the `label` didn’t require exposing or
interacting with the `Tab`’s internal state (e.g., active state styling). Once
the design becomes more complex a custom render function would become a better
fit.
