import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

<Meta
  title="Components/Selections/Combobox/Docs"
  parameters={{ alpha: true }}
/>

# Combobox

The Combobox component is designed to provide a versatile and accessible
interface for selecting options from a list. Comboboxes can be used for a
variety of scenarios, such as selecting items from a predefined list, filtering
and searching through data.

## Design & usage guidelines

Combobox is composed of three main parts:

#### Combobox Trigger

There are two primary options for trigger elements of the Combobox,
TriggerButton and TriggerChip. You must have one Trigger component.

Triggers serve as the user-facing interface to open and close the Combobox and
initiate option selection. The choice between them depends on the design and
user experience requirements.

#### Combobox Content

This component is an integral part of the Combobox and is responsible for
displaying the list of selectable options, handling user interactions, and
managing the search functionality.

#### Combobox Action

Situated at the bottom of the Content, these optional Actions allow users to
perform custom tasks such as adding a new option.

The Combobox component's primary function is to facilitate option selection and
searching within a list of items. It should be used in scenarios where users
need to choose from a set of options, with the added benefit of filtering and
customization.

## Content guidelines

Combobox is designed to handle lists of selectable options, so the component is
text based.

You may customize the trigger and action `label`. Refer to the
[Product Vocabulary](../?path=/docs/content-product-vocabulary--page) for
consistency in terminology and naming conventions when setting these values.

You may also set an optional `subjectNoun` for the Combobox Content. This will
be used in the empty state of the Combobox, as well as the noun within the
search placeholder.

#### Empty states

In cases where the list of options is empty, the Combobox Content will display a
message indicating the absence of options. The default will read, _"No options
yet"_ or _"You don't have any [subjectNoun] yet"_ if you've set the
`subjectNoun` prop.

If options are available, but the search query does not match any of them, the
Combobox Content will display a message indicating that no options match the
search query.
