## Composable Version (Web Only)

The Menu may be invoked with a subcomponent structure enabling a declarative
style, greater customization and composability with other components.

```
<Menu>
  <Menu.Trigger>
    <Button>Trigger</Button>
  </Menu.Trigger>
  <Menu.Content>
    <Menu.Item label="Email" onClick={clickHandler("email")}/>

    <PrivacyMask>
      <Menu.Item label="Sensitive" onClick={clickHandler("sensitive")}/>
    </PrivacyMask>

    <AuthCheck can="viewAdmin">
      <Menu.Item lable="Admin"onClick={clickHandler("admin")}/>
    </AuthCheck>
  </Menu.Content>
</Menu>
```

#### Sub Components

**_Menu.Trigger (Required)_**

An interactive element that will cause the Menu to open when clicked or
interacted with via keyboard. The open behavior is handled internally, and no
`onClick` is required on the provided component. A provided `Button` is purely
for appearance, however there is still a requirement that whatever is given to
Menu.Trigger must be an element with an interactive role.

Clicking the trigger again, or clicking anywhere outside the Menu at all will
close the Menu.

**_Menu.Content (Required)_**

A structural container element for the Menu's content which should consist of
one or more `Menu.Item`s, and optional additional content.

**_Menu.Item (Strongly recommended)_**

The interactive elements of a Menu responsible for the primary function of a
Menu. These must be provided an `onClick`, or a `href`\*.

A Menu Item has some simple defaults provided for text via the `label` prop,
`icon` for the name of an Icon that will receive the standard size and position,
`iconColor` and `destructive` for some predefined styling of a destructive
action.

If these defaults are not desired, please use `customRender` to take full
control over the Item's _content_. `label` and the other default style props are
not used when leveraging `customRender`.

If it is necessary to also adjust the _styles of the container_, `UNSAFE` props
will apply to the _container_ element. No access is provided to the
functionality or markup of this container element due to requirements for
accessibility and functionality of the Menu.

\*If being used for client side navigation such as TanStack Router, please
consult with us first.

**_Menu.Section (Optional)_**

A structural/conceptual element to group your related Items together. Provides
some default spacing that can be overriden with `UNSAFE`.

**_Menu.Header (Optional)_**

A presentational element primarily used to describe a group/section. Also
provides simple default styled text via `label`.

If further customization is required, `customRender` and `UNSAFE` are once again
available. With the _content_ being dictated by `customRender` the simple
`label` prop should be omitted.

**_Menu.Separator (Optional)_**

A presentational element primarily used to create visual separation between the
groups.

Comes with a default appearance that can be overriden with `UNSAFE`.

## Data Hierarchy Version

```
<Menu
    items={[
      {
        actions: [
          {
            label: "Edit",
            icon: "edit",
            onClick: () => {
              alert("✏️");
            },
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        header: "Send as...",
        actions: [
          {
            label: "Text message",
            icon: "sms",
            onClick: () => {
              alert("📱");
            },
          },
          {
            label: "Email",
            icon: "email",
            onClick: () => {
              alert("📨");
            },
          },
        ],
      },
    ]}
  />
```

### Component customization

### UNSAFE\_ props (advanced usage)

General information for using `UNSAFE_` props can be found
[here](/guides/customizing-components).

**Note**: Use of `UNSAFE_` props is **at your own risk** and should be
considered a **last resort**. Future Menu updates may lead to unintended
breakages.

Menu has multiple elements that can be targeted with classes or styles:

- `menu`: The actual menu element containing the actions
- `header`: The container for each section
- `action`: The container for each individual action

#### UNSAFE_className (web)

Use `UNSAFE_className` to apply custom classes to the Menu. This can be useful
for applying styles via CSS Modules.

#### UNSAFE_style (web)

The `UNSAFE_style` prop provides granular control over the Menu's appearance
through inline styles.
