import { Meta } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

# Input File

<Meta title="Components/Forms and Inputs/InputFile" />

InputFile allows users to upload a file, or multiple files by dragging and
dropping them into an area on the page or by clicking a button.

## Design & usage guidelines

When contributing to, or consuming the InputFile component, consider the
following:

- Provide feedback once the file(s) have been dropped and uploading begins.

### getUploadParams

`getUploadParams` is a necessary callback that tells InputFile where and how to
upload files that are passed to it. It must return an object conforming to the
`UploadParams` interface. `getUploadParams` can be async, allowing for a network
request to fetch any extra fields.

```ts
interface UploadParams {
  /**
   * Url to POST file to.
   */
  readonly url: string;

  /**
   * Key to identify file.
   * If unspecified a random `uuid` will be used.
   */
  readonly key?: string;

  /**
   * Any extra fields to send with the upload POST.
   * If unspecified only the file will be included.
   */
  readonly fields?: { [field: string]: string };
}
```

### updateFiles helper

InputFile also exports an `updateFiles` method. This method allows for easily
updating an array of `FileUpload`s based on their `key` as uploads progress.

```ts
/**
 * Upsert a given `FileUpload` into an array of `FileUpload`s.
 * `key` is used to uniquely identify files.
 *
 * @param updatedFile FileUpload File that was updated.
 * @param files Existing array of FileUploads.
 * @returns FileUpload[] updated set of files.
 */
export function updateFiles(updatedFile: FileUpload, files: FileUpload[]);
```

### validator

InputFile can accept a `validator` function as a prop. This will allow you to
reject or accept file uploads based on your needs. The value of the function
must accept a File and return `null` when it is accepted or an error object when
rejected.

For example, the code below only accepts files that are less than 2MB in size.

```ts
function fileSizeValidator(file: File) {
  if (file.size > 2000000) {
    return {
      code: "file-too-big",
      message: "The file is too big. Try using a smaller image",
    };
  }

  return null;
}
```

### maxFiles

The `maxFiles` prop sets a limit to the number of files that can be uploaded via
the dropzone. If the number of files uploaded exceeds the `maxFiles` value, the
`validator` function will be called, and an error will be displayed to the user.

It is up to the consumer of the component to manage state with `maxFiles`. For
example, if the component allows a maximum of 5 files and 3 files are already
uploaded, the state should be updated to reflect that only 2 more files can be
uploaded. In this scenario, if the user tries to upload 3 more files, the
`validator` function will be called with an error, and those 3 files will be
rejected.

`maxFiles` is directly mapped to `react-dropzone`'s `maxFiles` prop, documented
[here](https://react-dropzone.js.org/#!/Accepting%20specific%20number%20of%20files).

### description

The `description` prop is a string that can be used to provide additional
information to the user. A common use case is to provide the accepted file types
and maximum size for each file. With a helpful `description`, users are more
aware of the limitations and requirements of the file upload.

#### Notes

If you would like to restrict specific file types, it is advised that you use
the `allowedTypes` property instead of the `validator` property.
